referrals important in real life and
online what's up socials happy social
Thursday today I'm going to do a quick
tutorial for you on the computer on how
you can find out what the top referring
social networks are for your website you
might be using bit ly links or other
kinds of tools to kind of get an idea of
how links are performing and social but
you really want cold hard analytics when
it comes to this stuff so you know what
social networks are working best for you
because why spend time somewhere that's
not let's go over to the computer shall
we all right friends first and most
importantly I hope you have google
analytics installed on your website
because that is what we're going to be
working with today if you do not have an
analytic software even if it's not
google running on your website you are
missing a lot of opportunities to
measure success and failures so please
make sure that you have this included in
the back end of your site before you're
worried about the highest referring
social media networks because quite
frankly you're not going to be able to
find out without so I'm just going to
click over here this is just a getting
started page if you google google
analytics you'll get some instructions
here on how you can include it but i'm
going to switch over to my analytics now
once you're in Google Analytics you're
going to have your dashboard here and
this is where you will appear first but
I've actually clicked on the section
called acquisition this is how you are
acquiring people to your website and
when you click on overview this is what
you'll see you'll get an idea of how
much direct traffic you're getting
basically how many people are typing
your URL and going there how many people
are finding you in organic search
results meaning not paid search results
how much traffic you're getting from
social and of course other referral
traffic social used to be included in
referral but now it has its own little
category because referral traffic can
mean a lot of things somebody can link
to you from their website etc etc but we
want to look at social so if we click
that section and scroll down you'll see
a list of options here and it will show
you your top referring social network so
number one
me is Twitter obviously you guys know I
have a very high presence on Twitter
it's one of my favorite social networks
and also a great way for my target
audience to say stay subscribed facebook
is right behind at number two and then
the rest of them are pretty much
whatever youtube it says it doesn't send
a lot of referrals and this is a time
frame of the last 28 days but this is
actually not totally correct because
usually when I'm directing people from
YouTube they're going to a landing page
that looks like my website but is
actually a leadpages or some sort of
landing page so this metric isn't
totally correct and in all actuality
YouTube does send a ton of traffic but
if we're considering the other social
networks and not necessarily a Content
medium Twitter and Facebook are number
one for me so this is how you check your
top referring social networks hopefully
this will give you a good idea of just
how much of the work you're doing on
social actually is mattering to your
traffic that's all for today's socials
thank you so much for tuning in I
appreciate it as always make sure you
check out the top five things you need
to know before you make your first video
blog that's right if you want to do
stuff like this there's a couple things
you need to know but then I want you to
execute and just start creating video so
go check that out it's in the card over
there click sign up you'll get it
immediately so you'll love it make sure
you find me on itunes the marketing
lifestyle show has a new episode
tomorrow I want you to listen to so I
hope to see you there and then we'll be
back on YouTube next week for savvy
Tuesday